==JavaScript is an interpreted programming language, where as Java is a compiled language.== Similarly, the Python and Ruby, and similar to Java is C/C++ etc. Initially, JS was used only on the Front End. 
However, the modern JS is used in both Front End and Back End, in between, powered by all browsers. 
To open a JS Console: Web browser -> Inspect / Developer Tool -> Console. 

***Flow chart*** can be drawn using https://www.draw.io 

/*Note that when you hit enter, only one cmd is executed in a browser console. But if you want to execute multiple cmds, then hold 'Shift' key when you hit 'enter' then type the next cmd.
However, if you go to the 'source' tab -> click on '>>' and select snippets from the drop down menu, where you can type your complete script to run*/
/*To clear the JS Console memory, click on the "Refresh" icon and hold for a while to get the context menu to 'clear the cache'*/
/*extra notes in C:\Abdul\England\Training\JScript\Java-Script\javascript-notes.txt*/
##### Useful commands / instructions
**'> alert("Hello");' '> typeof(3); prompt("**what is your name?" ); myName.length; myName.slice(x,y)', myName.toUpperCase(); Math.floor(float_number); Math.random(); floatNumber.toFixed(2); Math.round(); Math.pow(x, 2) where x is number, and 2 is the power**
/*ex: for .slice(x,y), where x is start position and y is end position. Suppose we have var fruit = "Apple", fruit.slice(-1) gives the last letter, fruit.slice(0) gives the first char, fruit.slice (0, 2) gives the first two chars; or we can use the length property to dynamically calculate the last number or y; etc. */
For JS instructions go to MDN (developer.mozilla.org)
Code structure best practice: github.com/rwaldon/idiomatic.js
Basic Data types: string, number, boolean
'var myName = "A R";'

function getMilk() { //this is a basic f-n, ***first type***, which executes the instructions within it. 
set of instructions
} 
- if you set a parameter within the () of a f-n, then it becomes the ***second type***.
- if a f-n returns a value, it is ***third type***. An ex. below.
function getMilk(money) {
	set of instructions;
	return balance;
}
/*name your var s using **camelNotation**, use logical naming, a variable can not start with a number such as 123Park, and finally a var can not have a '-' hyphen*/

if (condition === 'value') { 'do this' }
else {'do this'} //" === makes exactly equal or "!== not equal. However == this two equal sign makes it logically equal. Ex: var a = 1; var b = '1'. So, in this ex. (a == b) is TRUE, but (a === b) is FALSE" . 
/*&& (for AND); || (for OR); ! (for NOT)*/

##### List / Collection / Array
ex: var guestList = ["daleela", "samir", "nadiya", "bashir"]; 
/*guestList.length => 4; guestList[1] => "samir" etc.*/
Permitted operations in an array are:
- guestList.includes("samir"); This returns True if this  value exists within the array. 
- guestList.push("abdul"); This adds "abdul" at the eof array. 
- guestList.pop(); This removes the last item from the array, and returns it's value.

##### Loops
var i=0; **while** ( condition ) { instructions }
**for** (var i=0; i<20; i++) { instructions }
==If a function is attached to an object, we can call it as method==
**querySelector():** this method takes a CSS selector as an argument and returns the first element that matches that selector. 
ex1: let h1 = document.querySelector("h1"); //selects an element
ex2: let button1 = document.querySelector('#button1'); //selects id

`button` element has a special property called onclick, which can be accessed with dot notation. 
```js
button.onclick = goStore();
```
const locations = [
  {
    'button functions': [goStore, goCave, fightDragon],
  }
];
console.log(locations[0]['button functions'])// to access a string in an object
shift() method of an array removes the 1st object from the array and returns it.

monsterStats.style.display = 'block'; // assuming the div element defined as monsterStats in the code. Use 'none' to hide.
`split()` method splits a string into an array of substrings and returns new array. Passing an empty string into the `split` method will split the string into an array of individual characters.

Regex in JavaScript is indicated by a pattern wrapped in forward slashes – ex:

```js
const regex = /hello/;
```
const regex = /\+-\s/; //pattern + and minus in regex. To add a space use '\s';
str.replace(regex, ""); See notes in 02CalorieCounter project for more details. 

/*Get the first <li*/> element inside an </*ul> element*/
var li = document.querySelector("ul li"); // note both parameters are targeted. 
let message = prompt("Compose your message": ); //this allows to collect information typed in into the message var

*Slicing and extracting part of a string*
name = "Abdul";
name.slice(0,1) => this gives the first char of the name string i.e. "A" (0 - sart; 1-end but excludes)
name.toUpperCase(); name.toLowerCase()

function getMilk() {
---your code here--
}
Math.pow(10, 2) // 10 to the power 2
Math.round(2.49) // => 2 and Math.round(2.5) // =>3
Math.random() //ex: (Math.ceil(Math.random() * 6)) to get a pseudo-random number for rolling a dice. It is called pseudo because it's a calculated value, not natural.
if (a === b) { // > or < or <= o >= etc. 
//block
} else {

}
Combine conditions using && or || '.
myArray = [item1, item2, item3] 
myArray.includes(item1) // this checks and return true/false
myArray.push(item) // pushes the item at the end
while(number <= 100) { > //here the code} // while loop checks the state/condition
for(var i=1, i<2, i++) {> //here the code} // for loop iterates
**obj.addEventListener**('click', function () {
// your code here. The addEventListener takes a string and a f-n as a parameter.
}) // This method of calling another f-n can be achieved as in below Ex:

function add (num1, num2) {
  return num1 + num2;
}

function multiply (num1, num2) {
  return num1 * num2;
}

function calculator(num1, num2, ***operator***) {
  return operator(num1, num2);
}
Note: the **debugger**; works well in chrome. We need to type 'debugger;' SHIFT + /*<ent*> and then on the next line type ex: calculator(3, 4, multiply); /*<ent*>. This should take to the debug mode.

*In a function or eventListener we can refer "this" method to find which element triggered the particular operation* Ex:

let keyElements = document.querySelectorAll('.drum');
for (let i=0; i < keyElements.length; i++){
  keyElements[i].addEventListener('click', function (){
    console.log(this); // sample output can be </*button class="w drum">w<*/button>
    } //and this.innerHTML can output 'w'. Based on this we can compare and use it.
*swtich statements*

switch(this.textContent) {
      case "w":
        var audio = new Audio('sounds/tom-1.mp3');
        audio.play();
        break;
      case "a":
        var audio = new Audio('sounds/tom-1.mp3');
        audio.play();
        break;

	default: 
	console.log();//the 'default' will be the case if anything else, which are not mentioned above occurs.
      }

var day = new Date("2025-10-19"); // if Date() is given, it takes today's date