download from https://gitforwindows.org
\[To upgrade: git update-git-for-windows]. Def. folder c:\Program Files\Git\
##### Git Bash
after installing with the default settings, open vscode, open terminal, and invoke GitBash from the dropdown menu from the terminal menu. You should see the $ sign. 

Now to  this bash as the def. shell to vscode do the following:
Command Palette -> Search for 'select default profile' -> select 'Git bash'. This will make the Git bash as the selected terminal.
In the command line a cool trick is to press 'Alt' and then can point the mouse where you want to edit the cmd. Other UNIX shortcuts like 'Ctrl' + a (to go to the start) or 'Ctrl' + e (to the end); 'Ctrl' + U to clear the line etc can be handy. 
'rm -r' this remove entire directory and all child folders etc. 
for more cmds, refer to: https://www.learnenough.com/command-line-tutorial
#### Git
`git init` // to initialize git repository. This will create a '.git' hidden folder in that working dir.
To track the files in a working dir., we need to add the file to staging area.
`git status` // shows which files are added into the staging area, and which are not.
`git add chapter1.txt` //adds chapter1.txt into the staging area. use 'git status' to check it.
`git commit -m "version ctrl message"` //To save into the repository with the message.
*By convention use the simple present tense within the message. Not past*
`git log` //This gives a report of the changes/commit made
`git add .` // here the '.' specifies to add all files in the current dir. 'git log' to check it. 
*if anything got messed up in btn, we can use the last version through `git checkout` cmd.*
`git diff chapter3.txt` //shows up the changes made from the last version.
`git checkout chapter3.txt` updates/reverts the file with the last version.
`git log` //verify the log
#### GitHub
'create a repository. You can untick the README.md file and use cmd line to sync data'
*We can use Desktop app or cmd line. GitHub page got some help instructions*
###### Pushing to the repository
*note the gitHub repository address *
`git remote add origin git@github.com:colombofish/Story.git` // create a remote Rep to transfer the local(origin is a name of remote, could b called any, but keep it as it is)
`git branch -M yoursettings` //if below line restricts
`git push -u origin yoursettings` // to send to github if the public/private keys are produced
*Generally the commits occurs to the main branch (in my case 'yoursettings'). However, we can add parallel branches and then later they can be merged*
###### Git ignore
`touch .gitignore` //create '.gitignore' file in the main folder
`https://github.com/github/gitignore` //contains pre-made gitignore collection for different modules/apps, where we can look for node.gitignore, and copy the content into our internal .gitignore file and modify it whatever other files or folders we want to include in it. 
###### Git clone
This to pull from Github to the local repo.
`git clone url` // to pull all versions and commits from the repo. This includes any SW avail publicly in the GitHub. 
###### Git Branching and Merging
If we wanna try a new Feature or experiment something new, we can do that through branching, and once we are satisfied, we can merge that to the 'main' branch.
`git branch alien-plot` // creates a branch 'alien-plot'
`git branch` //lists existing branches. The one with `*` will be the main or current branch
`git checkout alien-plot` //to switch to 'alien-plot' branch
`touch chapter4.txt` //add a new file to the alien-plot branch and modify it.
So, I can make changes to the same files or add new while being in this testing branch w/o affecting the main branch. Once satisfied I can commit them in the new branch, check the logs, then merge the branch to the main branch, while being in the main branch. 
'git checkout yoursettings' // first, switch to your main branch
`git merge alien-plot` //this opens vi editor to comment :qw to exit, and finally,
`git push -u origin your settings` //to push to GitHub
###### Fork
Forking is taking someone's repository, making the same copy into Github, where cloning is based locally. So, collaboration of team work possible through Fork-ing and Pull request. Pull request can be accepted if the requestor's identification is verified. It's like making suggestions on new features, bug-fixes or any other enhancements, and the real owner can grant permission or deny after reviewing those changes in the requestor's repo, and pull the changes over. Upon, this pull request the changes will be reflected into my repo.

==if necessary install yarn `npm install -g yarn` for projects, which require to install and run through yarn==
